Schwutch Schwity Schwans

I don’t know shit about Rick and Morty but I gathered this was about the lemon headed things. This is my favorite beat from this producer by far. It’s very dynamic and effective. The schwifty breakdown is so fucking perfect. I’m not into the vocal treatment on the ooh yeah’s and response bits in the hook as they’re not terribly clear. Other than that this is a hella solid song with good rapping and a pretty engaging theme and I like it. The whole “Show me what you got” bit really BELONGS in a songwriting competition and I’m so fucking glad this is the first song in the playlist this round because it really feels like an appropriate introduction to a block of competing tracks. If there’s a VPC5 best of compilation this one gets my vote for track 1.

Most schwifty - 8/10



DangerVale

This is fucking brilliant. I have never listened to the Nightfall podcast (though this really makes me kinda need to) but I feel this is maybe not taking place in the same world as the podcast but rather takes place in DangerGrove and is more of a pastiche of the format, I’m sure filled with direct references. Also the beat is still feeling a little like more of the same thing from Eli, particularly the floaty plunks over top of hat spam driven 808 beat. I do really like the way the snare’s treated here, though. And the weather section was refreshing, especially for a track that rambles on a bit without a hook, and really kind of made the song for me, instrumental wise. I’m not mad at this beat at all, just at this point I want to personally hear Eli pushing outside some comfort zones a little further. Jesse has been just as ambitious with his lyrical content and vocal delivery as I’d expect them to be this whole competition but this one was kind of mind blowing to me. Everything was so intricately set up and genuinely funny in a sort of way that easily makes this my favorite song of the round, though I feel I need to dock some points for not quite nailing the challenge parameters. 

Most pet cemetery real estate - 8/10



Daytman and Obvious Plant

I like this one. I have been a very vocal hater of this team but this song, as kitschy as it is, really showcases all of their strengths without any of the things I complained about in previous rounds. The beat is simple and straight forward but effective. I like the Alfred hook more and more every time I listen to it. There’s just something about the delivery that really pumps me up and makes it effective as fuck. There’s a few muddy moments in the verses, vocal delivery-wise, but I feel most of it works really well. Specifically the vocalist goes off beat a lot to the point where I found myself losing interest a few times until the hook brought me back. The end is perfect in my opinion.

Most shark repellent - 7/10



I Have No Kamehameha

This is a fun track but really doesn’t feel like it’s IN the fandom at all. There’s definitely a solid first person narrative that’s next level Nerdcore in my opinion, but one that just references DBZ and doesn’t actually take place in that universe. That said there’s some really solid moments in there and I feel the writing is very strong conceptually. I love the organ in the beat a hell of a lot and the last section where the drums switch up is perfect. Challenge aside the only real criticism I have is there’s really just only so many times I want to hear the word “space” in a song.

Most I dunno - 7/10



Lexi and the Crystal Ohms

I’m loving the bass synth right off the bat. The delay on all the Peridot samples  As usual Lex has meticulously written bars that are still very accessible. Writing from the perspective of Peridot was a VERY good choice. She’s arguably the most Nerdcore character on that show and Lex’s voice even vaguely sounds like hers (to me, not objectively, and I know it’s just her normal rap voice just I really hear her as Peridot) in a way that aids to the immersion. The two friendship is magic verses don’t really hit as hard as the initial one that’s a tighter narrative but do make the song feel more fun and anchors the hook, which is pretty fucking perfect. I also feel that the lighthearted angle really does fit Lex’s personality. This song is hella fucking good and yet another indicator that this team is easily landing in the top three at least by the end of this competition.

Most limb enhancers - 9/10



2 Black 2 Future 

Word. This is my favorite beat of this team so far easily but for fuck’s sake please up your snare game. The synth arp is really good and reminds me of something from a Lazerhawk song. The hook is amazing, though I lose interest on the verses pretty quickly each time around. THE TOILET LINE IS CLASSIC JOLLI AT HIS BEST! I love the ending guitar bit. 

Most flux capacitance - 7/10



Seven Pencils

I was hoping for a track without a Solomon Grundy feature but that’s cool. I love the dark vibe of this track and most of the decisions taken feel very deliberate and appropriate. The lyrics are sharp and the delivery is mostly the quality I’d expect from Lex. I barely read enough of the comic to get a basic idea of this fits into the fandom so I’m sure there’s some more direct references I’ve missed but even before I read it I could really get down with all the imagery and themes involved. This is a song that has a very focused message and the more I listen to it the harder I feel it. It feels like the drum patterns could have been tweaked a bit around 2:30 but this is hands down my favorite Solo beat to date. I feel working from a short run comic there’s not much for him to grab from to work into the production but the overall sound and theme fit incredibly well in the mood of the comic (and I’m told the lightning strikes are an intentional reference) and it really works for me.

Most ominous offering - 9/10



The Pendocks

This is a really solid beat. All the sample choices feel very deliberate and appropriate, especially once the first hook hits. And holy shit, the hook is so perfect. Boondocks was a very good choice in Fandom and Artemis’ style fits so well I could hear this song literally playing at the end of the episode. The writing in the song really masterfully ties together the narrative from the show to the point that I could see the footage appear from memory while listening with my eyes close and I feel that’s kind of the essential metric of nailing this challenge. I really want to see a well done video made to this song later with clips from the episode. This might be the song this round that’s the most firmly placed within the fandom for me. The vocal treatment on the bridge is very effective. This song is so fucking well done.

Most itis inducing - 9/10



Pretty Kill

Fuck this beat is engaging right from the beginning. I’m really digging the textures in the intro and then the second that wall of sound hits I’m floored. The drums and bass cradle the theme from the show flawlessly and just as I’m floating again the wall hits and it’s so fucking effective. HOLY SHIT I LOVE SHUBZ’S FLOW ON THIS! Delivery and cadence are very dynamic and do a great job of building and settling the energy of the song. I didn’t know anything about Kill La Kill before this and now I feel like I absolutely fucking need to. Between a plot synopsis and a few random clips I was able to follow along with a lot of the sentiments and love all of the string and thread themes throughout referencing the life fibers. THIS AIN’T FOR FUN, SHUBZ IS SERIOUS. Again another team this round that’s put forward my favorite of theirs. The end HA! is flawless. 

Most la killed it - 9/10



RASkrulll

I like the way the theme samples are worked into this beat. The intro is instantly engaging, though a quick fill before the beat kicks in would probably make it a little smoother. I appreciate the lyrics being very dense in a lot of ways that work for me, though the rambling flow loses me a few times and there’s just so much syllable cramming for a song with no hooks or bridges. A REST IS A NOTE. The first couple listens I didn’t think I liked the rapping for that reason and I felt as though the vocals clashed with the beat. After repeating a few times and getting more comfortable with it I think more so I just really need a break because if I pause it for a second and do sections at a time literally everything bumps. I really just get too fatigued listening through it. The scratch section at the end is really rad and I wonder if the verse was split up with some similar scratch breaks how much higher my score would have been. 

Most cosmic radiation - 7/10



SWA Poole

I dig this beat a lot. The bass intro with the movie sample is very effective. I don’t know if those are samples or virtual instruments or recorded or what but I love all the melodic elements in this song and the drums sound really good. Deadpool Kills is a really good choice for this round because you can pull him into our world and it’s just written off as playing with the 4th wall. The format of dissing everyone else in the competition with quick, cheap jabs is a thing I find both hokey as fuck and really entertaining and the lyrics are written in a way that bolsters both. A lot of the punchlines are mostly just generic stylized violence but holy shit I laugh every time at the credit card line. The chorus really works for me, though I’d understand if someone didn’t dig the vocal tone. The second verse isn’t quite as tight as the first but overall this is a very fun song.

Most deep fried -7/10



Robotnunk Maximum

I’m not the most avid anime watcher, being more of a casual fan, so this is another one I didn’t know anything about before this round but I honestly forgot about that because the plot is so thoroughly laid out. I feel like I knew exactly what was happening and why before I bothered to read a synopsis, which just helped to anchor it a little deeper. I really really really fucking feel this song on multiple levels. As a narrative piece I really feel this is a great set up with the first verse conveying all of the confusion of the situation, the hook establishing the character’s resolve and motivation, and the second verse really anchoring the conflict with just enough action to make me on the edge of my seat waiting for track two that you fuckers better make. Just on some rap shit I am a huge fan of Desh’s flow, delivery, and writing and this is no exception. It’s very dynamic and engaging and along with the production makes this the best song this round for setting on repeat. P R O D U C T I O N W I S E this beat is incredible. The bell samples are airy and ominous, the drum patterns are tight, the bass is THICK, the added percussion layers flesh out each bump up in energy flawlessly, AND THE WOBBLE SOLO IS SO FUCKING HYPE! This is probably just me being too emotional and biased again but I really really love this fucking song.

Most down with the town - 10/10