Dr Vern

Clutch City Chaos- Show Me What You Got  8/10

I really dig this one, I love the production and Vocal across-the-board. Besides meeting the Fandom requirement, 
the music on the track really fits the mood and feel of the source material. the rap flow is decent and well delivered
but the lyrics could've been a bit more clever. Fandom songs can be faithful to the source by bringing the artists
emtional connection to the source by adding referential lyrics, but also making them connect with human emotions
and related through the source inspiration, OR you can make a hype track that uses references to your fandom without
any deeper insight. That's where I deduct points (Every song starts with a 10 for me) on this track. With the music really setting
the proper mood here, I wanted a little more from the lyrics. This is one of the best tracks for round 3, so I might be nit 
picking a little, but I feel like this one is SO close to being a Great track. It's still a damn good track though, and it holds up 
well to repeated listening. Production side has some Fine Work here, Well Done.

Dangergrove-All Dogs Go To Heaven 7.5/10

Hilariously meta Rap based on a podcast fandom. Maybe the most unique take on a fandom I have ever heard.
From that perspective this is brilliance. After every listen, I find myself laughing at something different. I especially
like the subtle (and not so subtle) jabs at Music v Hip Hop, and the VPC itself. Really brilliant in the lyric department
and the production is spot on throughout the track. This track does indeed check all the boxes for the contest. My score
here is because once you get past all that, it's a pretty bland experience as a whole and not something you'd go back to after
a few plays. Pure and Simple it was made for this contest and my score reflects that, But it's not something I would put on a 
random playlist for any reason. The same self-indulgence that makes this one so hilarious and checks all the boxes of the VPC
also hurts it ultimately. It's like the Batman v. Superman of Rap songs.Lots of Potential, Lots of great production 
and A lot to love here. once assembled however, it leaves you slightly unfulfilled. 

Dayton B & Obvious Lee- Check My Resume 6/10

Credit where it's due, I love the concept of making a track about Alfred for a Batman fandom project.
The Concept here is brilliant, the execution is another story. Production was pretty good, with the exception
of the Vocal being  little too out-in-front of the mix. I loved the use of the 60s Batman theme. Overall the Rap
sounds like it was created and recorded without actually hearing the track. Almost like a post-dub. The rap
strays from the beat too many times for me to ignore and the delivery at times has weird forced-syllables that
adapt to stay on the beat. It all just distracts from the concept that is better than the final product. I did like
much of the rap itself, the enunciation of ALFRED. THADDEUS. CRANE. PENNYWORTH is like a call to arms.
The rap is pretty great really. I would've scored this much higher if it didn't sound like the music and rap were
recorded seperately and spliced together after the fact. It sounds a bit "rushed to completion". Still, funny as hell 
and checks a lot of boxes for the round.

I Have No Idea- Space 4/10

Not getting the connection to the fandom here, So i'll score on the clever rap lyrics and production
which is really decent. It's a fail for me in the fandom department, and that's what this round is all about.
From that perspective this should be a DQ. I will say that what is here is written and produced well
enough to earn a higher score if this was a "make a social statement with nerdcore" round. In fact it 
probably wins that easily. I'll give you a 4 here for the few DBZ references that are mixed in with the commentary

LexicOhm- Log Date 8.5/10
 
I Love Steven Universe! Another great trip through a fandom here. The lyrics are pretty damn good,
they also have lots of "and, uhhs" in there too which I don't feel so much. Production is tight as well, 
the music and beats are atmospheric but feel a bit empty in places. Overall it's hard to knock this one.
I'm a fan. This one is one of the best in this round to me, it not only checks all the boxes for the VPC round
but also has a nice groove that holds up well for repeat listening. Scoring an 8.5, my only critique here
is the empty spaces in the beat, they were a bit distracting at times, almost "false finishes". Excellent work here.

Maybe Next Week- Black to the Future  7.5/10

First of all, the lyrics are well written. I love the concept of Back To The Future blended with sexual machismo. It's done
very effectively here. The beat chugs along at 88bpm and has a nice array of dynamics that add to the flavor, but from
a music and beat perspective it feels like a climb without payoff. The music crescendos and intensifies, then stops.
Other than that musical dynamic, I can't find a lot to fault in this effort. Filled with humor and innuendo, this is the kind
of nerdcore track I can get behind, and there's enough energy to pull off 1.21 gigawatts. Well written lyrics that go beyond
a reference and into the realm of double entendre and storytelling within the fandom. If the beat held up it's end of the bargain
this would be a no-brainer win for this round.

Pencil Automatons- The Offer  8/10

Starting to see a trend in round 3, fandom based stuff is the heart of nerdcore. there's a great deal of heart in this track based
on Seven to Eternity. The beat and production are nicely done here, and the lyrics are a clinic in writing for fandom projects.
taking the best of your fandom and relating it to an audience can be a hard sell. In listening to this, I wondered how many people
outside Seven to Eternity readers could relate to it. Part of the game is taking something you are a fan of, and making it relatable
to anyone who happens to hit play on your track to listen. While I feel like this was largely accomplished here, after many listens
I feel it could've been done a little bit better lyrically. The flow, production and mix all work well and overall this is very good.
A few lyric edits would put this over-the-top.

Penzel Washington & Danny DeBeato- The Luthor  6.5/10

I listened to this one like 5 times before I started forming thoughts. After doing that, my first comment has to be directed at the Hook,
which I'm not a fan of. The hook is a bit annoying, but the good news is practically everything else works great. Filled with humor and catchy
beats that will tap your toes, this track is fandom based entertainment that can appeal across-the-board.Production is very good  and servicable.
(though a pet peeve of mine is vocals that are too loud in the final mix) The Rap flow and Lyrics are really well done also,
But after 10+ plays, that hook hasn't gotten better for me. If I heard this without the hook, it would be score higher. 

Pretty, Good- By A Thread  5/10

The first misfire for Pretty,Good for me in the competition. I am unfamiliar with Kill La Kill, so I went into this without expectations.
After 1 listen, I decided I needed to find out more about this fandom. So I researched and read up on it, listened to this track on repeat
and came to the conclusion that I just don't like this track. Objectively, I can say that the production is well done, and based on my research
the Round requirment was met, So let's talk about the song. A slow tempo grind can be very effective, but here it feels dragging and boring.
In places the Rap sounds out of sorts, like you wrote it, then did a 1st take readthrough and recorded it, and then just used that take for the final.
 It sounds rushed. On the production side, it's not bad, but the electric guitar sounds overly noisy and sometimes the production 
overshadows the vocal. Normally, when I hear a fandom song about something I am unfamiliar with, It makes me want to know more
about it and a lot of times i've become a fan of a property after hearing a song. This would not be the case here, So i'll score a 5 for VPC
Compliance. I just wasn't feeling this one. 

RACROWNN- Fantastic Energies 7/10

I Love the rap in this one, and the use of the old over-the-top FF theme. I heard something new with each listen, so that is something. I would
have loved to hear a bit more attention to detail in the production as the cool music in the beats got lost in the mix a little. The track more than meets the 
VPC round requirement as it has a pretty nasty (compliment) rap about the Fantastic Four and their universe. I would've liked less fan service recap and 
more inspiration from the lyrics, but they are pretty damn good and the flow dynamics are on point. The Intro really got me pumped up, then there is a noticible drop in the beat volume.
ultimately this kind of took me out of the hype that the intro had just built. I also noticed that occasionally the beat and rhyme slip off time a bit.
my deductions here are almost exclusively on the production side as the Rap gets better with every listen. I love FF and wish they knew how
to make a movie, if they ever get that right, this could be a great soundtrack song...with some production edits.

SWA- Deadpool Kills the VPC (Chimichangas)  4.5/10

after a few listens to this one, I was hungry. After I ate, I came back for several more listens. Let's get this out of the way right off the bat,
I'm not a fan of the production on this track. It sounds like a raw board mix that hasn't been mastered. All the good stuff that comes in the form
of a pretty good rap, and some suitable-to-the-source fan service. That's all good stuff, but I can't get past the lack of production polish on this one.
It just feels unfinished and rushed to the point of distraction. Fighting through those, I Believe There's a good track here with 2 fandoms of homage
(Deadpool and Chimichangas). Lyrics aren't quite as funny as they should be for this fandom, imo. A good effort in a round that has stiff competition.
Meets the criteria, fails in execution. 


Team ROBOKRUNK- Town  9/10

I would think that it would be very challenging to not write a depressing track about the super grim
subject matter of this fandom, but DAMN. No problem for this team. This doesn't sound like a track
that fits especially well in a sci-fi/horror genre, but it really works for me on multiple levels.
The production is outstanding and is matched with a rap that commits. The hook is the best in this 
round bar none. Round Challenge met, but there is a lot more here to love. The Beat is crazy and 
pulls you right in, the rap and flow are tight to the beat. the dynamic effects throughout the track hit all 
the right spots too. Best song of the round to me. It's not flawless, when you look at it overall, but It certainly 
delivers